README.md, before:

# UI Toolkit for Jupyter

> Don't hesitate to open issues and PRs if you want to
> help.

[![Extension status](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-ready-success 'The package is ready to be used')](https://jupyterlab-contrib.github.io/)
[![NPM Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@jupyter/web-components?color=blue)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@jupyter/web-components)
[![jsdelivr status](https://img.shields.io/badge/cdn-jsdelivr-brightgreen)](https://www.jsdelivr.com/package/npm/@jupyter/web-components)
[![unpkg status](https://img.shields.io/badge/cdn-unpkg-brightgreen)](https://unpkg.com/browse/@jupyter/web-components/)

[![Toolkit CI Status](https://github.com/jupyterlab-contrib/jupyter-ui-toolkit/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/jupyterlab-contrib/jupyter-ui-toolkit/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![Deploy Docs Status](https://github.com/jupyterlab-contrib/jupyter-ui-toolkit/actions/workflows/docs-cd.yml/badge.svg)](https://jupyterlab-contrib.github.io/jupyter-ui-toolkit/)
[![Binder](https://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg)](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/jupyterlab-contrib/jupyter-ui-toolkit/main)

![Toolkit for Jupyter Artwork](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jupyterlab-contrib/jupyter-ui-toolkit/main/packages/components/docs/assets/toolkit-artwork.png)

[Explore the components](https://jupyterlab-contrib.github.io/jupyter-ui-toolkit/) | [Online JupyterLab demo](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/jupyterlab-contrib/jupyter-ui-toolkit/main)

## Introduction

The UI Toolkit is a component library for building web interfaces in Jupyter ecosystem (JupyterHub,
Jupyter Widgets, JupyterLab,...).

Features of the library include:

- **Implements the Jupyter design language:** All components follow the design language of Jupyter
  – enabling developers to create extensions that have a consistent look and feel with the rest of
  the ecosystem.
- **Automatic support for color themes:** All components are designed with theming in mind and will
  automatically display the current application theme.
- **Use any tech stack:** The library ships as a set of web components, meaning developers can use
  the toolkit no matter what tech stack (React, Vue, Svelte, etc.) their extension is built with.
- **Accessible out of the box:** All components ship with web standard compliant ARIA labels and
  keyboard navigation.

This repository contains three packages:

- [`@jupyter/web-components`](https://github.com/jupyterlab-contrib/jupyter-ui-toolkit/tree/main/packages/components/):
  The main package defining the web components.
- [`@jupyter/react-components`](https://github.com/jupyterlab-contrib/jupyter-ui-toolkit/tree/main/packages/react-components):
  Wrapped the web components to use them with [React](https://reactjs.org).
- [`jupyter-ui-demo`](https://github.com/jupyterlab-contrib/jupyter-ui-toolkit/tree/main/packages/lab-example):
  Unpublished JupyterLab extension to demonstrate the integration of the toolkit.

Those features are brought through the [Fast Design](https://www.fast.design/). And it is inspired
by the [WebView toolkit for Visual Studio Code](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode-webview-ui-toolkit)
as example for creating a customized toolkit.

## Release

The UI Toolkit is currently in a proof of concept. Track progress towards 1.0 [here](https://github.com/jupyterlab-contrib/jupyter-ui-toolkit/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+milestone%3Av1.0).
Styles and API are not guarantee between minor versions prior to v1.0.0.

## Installation

### From NPM

To install the `web-components` library, use either `npm` or `yarn` as follows:

```shell
npm install --save @jupyter/web-components
```

```shell
yarn add @jupyter/web-components
```

> If you need the React components of the toolkit, you need to install `@jupyter/react-components`.

### From CDN

A pre-bundled script that contains all APIs needed to use Jupyter UI Toolkit is available on CDN. You can use this script by adding [`type="module"`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Modules) to the script element and then importing from the CDN.

```html
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <script
      type="module"
      src="https://unpkg.com/@jupyter/web-components/dist/toolkit.min.js"
    ></script>
  </head>
  <!-- ... -->
</html>
```

The above CDN location points to the latest release of `@jupyter/web-components`. It is advised that when you deploy your site or app, you import the specific version you have developed and tested with.

## Documentation

Further documentation can be found in the following places:

- [Interactive documentation](https://jupyterlab-contrib.github.io/jupyter-ui-toolkit/)
- [Toolkit Extension Samples](https://github.com/jupyterlab-contrib/jupyter-ui-toolkit/tree/main/packages/lab-example):
  [Try online](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/jupyterlab-contrib/jupyter-ui-toolkit/main)

## Contributing

See the [contributing](https://github.com/jupyterlab-contrib/jupyter-ui-toolkit/tree/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) documentation.

Commit message:

Try to read Jupyter CSS properties even if body attribute is not set. (#71)
* Try to read Jupyter CSS properties even if body attribute is not set.

* Simplify the story about theme mode from CDN

README.md, after:

# UI Toolkit for Jupyter

> Don't hesitate to open issues and PRs if you want to
> help.

[![Extension status](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-ready-success 'The package is ready to be used')](https://jupyterlab-contrib.github.io/)
[![NPM Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@jupyter/web-components?color=blue)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@jupyter/web-components)
[![jsdelivr status](https://img.shields.io/badge/cdn-jsdelivr-brightgreen)](https://www.jsdelivr.com/package/npm/@jupyter/web-components)
[![unpkg status](https://img.shields.io/badge/cdn-unpkg-brightgreen)](https://unpkg.com/browse/@jupyter/web-components/)

[![Toolkit CI Status](https://github.com/jupyterlab-contrib/jupyter-ui-toolkit/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/jupyterlab-contrib/jupyter-ui-toolkit/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![Deploy Docs Status](https://github.com/jupyterlab-contrib/jupyter-ui-toolkit/actions/workflows/docs-cd.yml/badge.svg)](https://jupyterlab-contrib.github.io/jupyter-ui-toolkit/)
[![Binder](https://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg)](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/jupyterlab-contrib/jupyter-ui-toolkit/main)

![Toolkit for Jupyter Artwork](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jupyterlab-contrib/jupyter-ui-toolkit/main/packages/components/docs/assets/toolkit-artwork.png)

[Explore the components](https://jupyterlab-contrib.github.io/jupyter-ui-toolkit/) | [Online JupyterLab demo](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/jupyterlab-contrib/jupyter-ui-toolkit/main)

## Introduction

The UI Toolkit is a component library for building web interfaces in Jupyter ecosystem (JupyterHub,
Jupyter Widgets, JupyterLab,...).

Features of the library include:

- **Implements the Jupyter design language:** All components follow the design language of Jupyter
  – enabling developers to create extensions that have a consistent look and feel with the rest of
  the ecosystem.
- **Automatic support for color themes:** All components are designed with theming in mind and will
  automatically display the current application theme.
- **Use any tech stack:** The library ships as a set of web components, meaning developers can use
  the toolkit no matter what tech stack (React, Vue, Svelte, etc.) their extension is built with.
- **Accessible out of the box:** All components ship with web standard compliant ARIA labels and
  keyboard navigation.

This repository contains three packages:

- [`@jupyter/web-components`](https://github.com/jupyterlab-contrib/jupyter-ui-toolkit/tree/main/packages/components/):
  The main package defining the web components.
- [`@jupyter/react-components`](https://github.com/jupyterlab-contrib/jupyter-ui-toolkit/tree/main/packages/react-components):
  Wrapped the web components to use them with [React](https://reactjs.org).
- [`jupyter-ui-demo`](https://github.com/jupyterlab-contrib/jupyter-ui-toolkit/tree/main/packages/lab-example):
  Unpublished JupyterLab extension to demonstrate the integration of the toolkit.

Those features are brought through the [Fast Design](https://www.fast.design/). And it is inspired
by the [WebView toolkit for Visual Studio Code](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode-webview-ui-toolkit)
as example for creating a customized toolkit.

## Release

The UI Toolkit is currently in a proof of concept. Track progress towards 1.0 [here](https://github.com/jupyterlab-contrib/jupyter-ui-toolkit/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+milestone%3Av1.0).
Styles and API are not guarantee between minor versions prior to v1.0.0.

## Installation

### From NPM

To install the `web-components` library, use either `npm` or `yarn` as follows:

```shell
npm install --save @jupyter/web-components
```

```shell
yarn add @jupyter/web-components
```

> If you need the React components of the toolkit, you need to install `@jupyter/react-components`.

### From CDN

A pre-bundled script that contains all APIs needed to use Jupyter UI Toolkit is available on CDN. You can use this script by adding [`type="module"`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Modules) to the script element and then importing from the CDN.

```html
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <script
      type="module"
      src="https://unpkg.com/@jupyter/web-components/dist/toolkit.min.js"
    ></script>
  </head>
  <!-- ... -->
</html>
```

The above CDN location points to the latest release of `@jupyter/web-components`. It is advised that when you deploy your site or app, you import the specific version you have developed and tested with.

See the [example](./examples/cdn/index.html) folder for more hints about theming.

## Documentation

Further documentation can be found in the following places:

- [Interactive documentation](https://jupyterlab-contrib.github.io/jupyter-ui-toolkit/)
- [Toolkit Extension Samples](https://github.com/jupyterlab-contrib/jupyter-ui-toolkit/tree/main/packages/lab-example):
  [Try online](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/jupyterlab-contrib/jupyter-ui-toolkit/main)

## Contributing

See the [contributing](https://github.com/jupyterlab-contrib/jupyter-ui-toolkit/tree/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) documentation.
